README.md, before:

# Linode DNS Provider

This is a drop-in provider for [apnscp](https://apnscp.com) to enable DNS support for accounts that use Linode. This provider is built into apnscp.

## Configuring

```bash
EditDomain -c dns,provider=linode -c dns,key=abcdef1234567890 domain.com
```

Where the key is created within Linode. See Linode: [API Key](https://www.linode.com/docs/platform/api/getting-started-with-the-linode-api/) for information.

## Components

- Module- overrides [Dns_Module](https://github.com/apisnetworks/apnscp-modules/blob/master/modules/dns.php) behavior
- Validator- service validator, checks input with AddDomain/EditDomain helpers

### Minimal module methods

All module methods can be overwritten. The following are the bare minimum that are overwritten for this DNS provider to work:

- `atomicUpdate()` attempts a record modification, which must retain the original record if it fails
- `zoneAxfr()` returns all DNS records
- `add_record()` add a DNS record
- `remove_record()` removes a DNS record
- `get_hosting_nameservers()` returns nameservers for the DNS provider
- `add_zone_backend()` creates DNS zone
- `remove_zone_backend()` removes a DNS zone

See also: [Creating a provider](https://hq.apnscp.com/apnscp-pre-alpha-technical-release/#creatingaprovider) (hq.apnscp.com)

## Contributing

Submit a PR and have fun!

Commit message:

Provider scope usage
Signed-off-by: Matt Saladna <msaladna@apisnetworks.com>

README.md, after:

# Linode DNS Provider

This is a drop-in provider for [apnscp](https://apnscp.com) to enable DNS support for accounts that use Linode. This provider is built into apnscp.

## Configuring

```bash
EditDomain -c dns,provider=linode -c dns,key=abcdef1234567890 domain.com
```

Where the key is created within Linode. See Linode: [API Key](https://www.linode.com/docs/platform/api/getting-started-with-the-linode-api/) for information.

### Setting as default

Linode may be configured as the default provider for all sites using the `dns.default-provider` [Scope](https://gitlab.com/apisnetworks/apnscp/blob/master/docs/admin/Scopes.md). When adding a site in Nexus or [AddDomain](https://hq.apnscp.com/working-with-cli-helpers/#adddomain) the key will be replaced with "DEFAULT". This is substituted automatically on account creation.

```bash
cpcmd config_set dns.default-provider linode
cpcmd config_set dns.default-provider-key 'abcdef1234567890'
```

> Note that it is not safe to set this value as a server-wide default in untrusted multiuser environments. A user with panel access can retrieve your key `common_get_service_value dns key` or even using Javascript in the panel, `apnscp.cmd('common_get_service_value',['dns','key'], {async: false})`.

## Components

- Module- overrides [Dns_Module](https://github.com/apisnetworks/apnscp-modules/blob/master/modules/dns.php) behavior
- Validator- service validator, checks input with AddDomain/EditDomain helpers

### Minimal module methods

All module methods can be overwritten. The following are the bare minimum that are overwritten for this DNS provider to work:

- `atomicUpdate()` attempts a record modification, which must retain the original record if it fails
- `zoneAxfr()` returns all DNS records
- `add_record()` add a DNS record
- `remove_record()` removes a DNS record
- `get_hosting_nameservers()` returns nameservers for the DNS provider
- `add_zone_backend()` creates DNS zone
- `remove_zone_backend()` removes a DNS zone

See also: [Creating a provider](https://hq.apnscp.com/apnscp-pre-alpha-technical-release/#creatingaprovider) (hq.apnscp.com)

## Contributing

Submit a PR and have fun!
